Updating Appsflyer deep linking section to be in parity with their docs (#6778)
braze-inc/braze-docs: _docs/_partners/message_orchestration/attribution/appsflyer/appsflyer.md

{% endalert %}

## Integrate AppsFlyer with an Email Service Provider for deep linking

AppsFlyer integrates with both SendGrid and SparkPost as Email Service Providers (ESPs) to support deep linking and click tracking. Follow the instructions below to integrate with your ESP of choice.

{% alert tip %}
Deep links&#8212;links that direct users toward a specific page or place within an app or website&#8212;are used to create a tailored user experience. While widely used, issues can arise when using emailed deep links with click tracking, another important feature used in collecting user data. These issues are due to ESPs wrapping deep links in a click-recording domain, breaking the original link. As such, supporting deep links requires additional setup. By integrating AppsFlyer with either SendGrid or SparkPost, you avoid these issues. Learn more about this topic in [Universal links and App Links]({{site.baseurl}}/help/help_articles/email/universal_links/).
{% endalert %}

### Step 1: Set up OneLink in AppsFlyer

> 1. In AppsFlyer, select a OneLink template for your email campaigns. Ensure the template supports universal links (iOS) or App Links (Android). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In AppsFlyer, select a OneLink template for your email campaigns. Make sure the template supports universal links (iOS) or App Links (Android). 
```

Reviewer: Might want to do a quick find and replace for "Ensure" to "Make sure" or another synonym, re: legal chat about the usage of "ensure".

2. Configure your app to support deep linking with OneLink. See the [AppsFlyer documentation](https://dev.appsflyer.com/hc/docs/dl_work_flow#initial-setup) for details on configuring your app to support OneLink.

### Step 2: Configure your app to support universal links and App Links

Universal links (iOS) or App Links (Android) are allowed by the device's operating system to open a specified app when clicked.

Perform the following steps to support universal links and App Links.

{% tabs local %}
{% tab SendGrid %}

> {% subtabs %}

Reviewer: It might be desired behavior to make these global subtabs. This means if the reader changes to the Sparkpost > Android tab, the remaining tabs will also show Sparkpost > Android so the reader doesn't have to select it again.

{% subtab iOS %}

> Set up the Apple App Site Association (AASA) file hosting to enable universal links in your emails.

Reviewer: @josh-mccrowell-braze if I'm following the IA correctly, I think the Sendgrid subtabs are missing the "Step 2a" subheadings

Author: They only have a single step so don't need A and B. Thanks for doublechecking though!

Additionally, attribution data for a particular user is available on each user's profile in the Braze dashboard.

{% alert note %}
Attribution data for Facebook and X (formerly Twitter) campaigns is not available through our partners. These media sources do not permit their partners to share attribution data with third parties and, therefore, our partners cannot send that data to Braze.
{% endalert %}

## Integrate AppsFlyer with an Email Service Provider for deep linking

AppsFlyer integrates with both SendGrid and SparkPost as Email Service Providers (ESPs) to support deep linking and click tracking. Follow the instructions below to integrate with your ESP of choice.

{% alert tip %}

> Deep links&#8212;links that direct users toward a specific page or place within an app or website&#8212;are used to create a tailored user experience. While widely used, issues can arise when using emailed deep links with click tracking, another important feature used in collecting user data. These issues are due to ESPs wrapping deep links in their own click-recording domain, breaking the original link. By integrating AppsFlyer with either SendGrid or SparkPost, you avoid these issues. Learn more about this topic in [Universal links and App Links]({{site.baseurl}}/help/help_articles/email/universal_links/).

Reviewer 2: > These issues are due to ESPs wrapping deep links in their own click-recording domain, breaking the original link.

I'd specify that ESPs wrap deep links in your (the customer's) branded click tracking domains. I'd say something like: Supporting universal links requires additional setup, and integrating with AppsFlyer can help avoid these issues

Author: Done!

        * Copy the OneLink subdomain of your OneLink template. Ensure the template supports universal links.
        * Paste it instead of the placeholder in the following URL: `<OneLinkSubdomain>.onelink.me/.well-known/apple-app-site-association`
        * To download the AASA file, paste the OneLink URL into your browser's address bar and press **Enter**. The file will then be downloaded to your computer, and you can open and view its contents using any text editor.
    * [Apple's guide on universal links](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/xcode/allowing_apps_and_websites_to_link_to_your_content) explains how to create the AASA file.
2. Host the AASA file in your click-recording domain server. The file should be hosted in the path: `click.example.com/.well-known/apple-app-site-association`. 

See the [SendGrid documentation](https://docs.sendgrid.com/ui/sending-email/universal-links) to learn how to configure the AASA file for SendGrid and set up CDN services to host the AASA file.

{% alert important %}
Once the AASA file is hosted, any change of your OneLink configuration (modification or replacement) requires generating a new AASA file.
{% endalert %}

> #### Step 2b: Configure your SDK to support the AASA file

Reviewer 2: Should this step be part of Step 3: Configure your SDK instead?

Author: Done!

        * Add `/.well-known/assetlinks.json` to the end of the OneLink URL.
        * To download the Digital Asset Links file, paste the OneLink URL into your browser's address bar and press **Enter**. For example, `https://<OneLinkSubdomain>.onelink.me/.well-known/assetlinks.json`. The file will then be downloaded to your computer, and you can open and view its contents using any text editor.
    * [Android's guide to App Links](https://developer.android.com/studio/write/app-link-indexing) explains how to create the Digital Asset Links file.
2. Host the Digital Asset Links file in your click-recording domain server. The file should be hosted in the path: `click.example.com/.well-known/apple-app-site-association`.

See the [SendGrid documentation](https://docs.sendgrid.com/ui/sending-email/universal-links) to learn how to configure the Digital Asset Links file for SendGrid and set up CDN services to host the Digital Asset Links file.

{% alert important %}
Once the Digital Asset Links file is hosted, any change of your OneLink configuration (modification or replacement) requires generating a new file.
{% endalert %}

> #### Step 2b: Configure your SDK to support the Digital Asset Links file

Reviewer 2: same comment as whether this should be included in Step 3: Configure your SDK

{% endtabs %}

{% alert note %}

> **This recommendation is optional**: If you currently do not use any device identifiers&#8212;such as the IDFV or GAID&#8212;in your click tracking links, or do not plan to in the future, AppsFlyer will still be able to attribute these clicks through their probabilistic modeling.

Reviewer: The intro to this note reads oddly to me, maybe because the heading says (optional) instead of (recommended)? Should this be a step, with the note reading "this step is optional"? Being at the same level in the IA with the steps is perhaps confusing me.

Author: Yeah I agree. I'm gonna just remove it.
